## Core Devs Meetings

### Purpose
The core devs meeting is a technical meeting intended to bring together various Filecoin teams who play major roles in determining the direction of the protocol. Filecoin implementation and research teams provide updates to their projects, discuss the implementation of various [FIPs](https://github.com/filecoin-project/FIPs) to improve the protocol, and support each other as we build a decentralized, efficient, and robust foundation for humanity’s information.

### Previous Meetings

 №  | Date                             | Agenda         |Notes          | Recording            |
--- | -------------------------------- | -------------- |-------------- | -------------------- |
  1 | Friday, September 11, 2020       | [agenda](https://github.com/filecoin-project/tpm/issues/1) | [notes](https://github.com/filecoin-project/tpm/blob/master/Core%20Dev%20Meetings/Meeting%200001.md) | [recording](https://youtu.be/BB6uiZ0h35g) |
  2 | Friday, September 25, 2020       | [agenda](https://github.com/filecoin-project/tpm/issues/3) | [notes](https://github.com/filecoin-project/tpm/blob/master/Core%20Dev%20Meetings/Meeting%200002.md) | [recording](https://youtu.be/2xk1PWYqhxU) |
  3 | Thursday, October 8, 2020       | [agenda](https://github.com/filecoin-project/tpm/issues/5) | [notes](https://github.com/filecoin-project/tpm/blob/master/Core%20Dev%20Meetings/Meeting%200003.md) | [recording](https://youtu.be/ExFBGD3sjHk) |
  4 | Thursday, October 22, 2020       | [agenda](https://github.com/filecoin-project/tpm/issues/7) | [notes](https://github.com/filecoin-project/tpm/blob/master/Core%20Dev%20Meetings/Meeting%200004.md) | [recording](https://youtu.be/58b8TY9LJaM) |
  5 | Thursday, November 5, 2020       | [agenda](https://github.com/filecoin-project/tpm/issues/9) | [notes](https://github.com/filecoin-project/tpm/blob/master/Core%20Dev%20Meetings/Meeting%200005.md) | [recording](https://youtu.be/jCJFhhR0gW8) |
  6 | Thursday, November 19, 2020       | [agenda](https://github.com/filecoin-project/tpm/issues/13) | [notes](https://github.com/filecoin-project/tpm/blob/master/Core%20Dev%20Meetings/Meeting%200006.md) | [recording](https://youtu.be/t9W4Yl4sgwY) |
  7 | Thursday, December 3, 2020       | [agenda](https://github.com/filecoin-project/tpm/issues/15) | [notes](https://github.com/filecoin-project/tpm/blob/master/Core%20Dev%20Meetings/Meeting%200007.md) | [recording](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4naFxk_mcLc) |
  8 | Thursday, December 17, 2020       | [agenda](https://github.com/filecoin-project/tpm/issues/20) | [notes](https://github.com/filecoin-project/tpm/blob/master/Core%20Dev%20Meetings/Meeting%200008.md) | [recording](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DqKlP33qi4c) |

### Who Can Attend
Low-level protocol developers, implementation developers, and core Filecoin researchers are invited to attend the meetings. Generally every Filecoin implementation  is represented, along with key members of research/scaling teams. Sometimes, a non-core developer with particular expertise on a topic is invited on to discuss a specific agenda item. If you feel you would contribute to the meetings by your attendance please reach out to [team@filecoin.io](mailto:team@filecoin.io).

### Agenda Items
Agendas are posted to https://github.com/filecoin-project/tpm/issues. Anyone is welcome to add an item to the agenda as long as it follows these guidelines:
- The topic is technical in nature.
- The topic involves the Filecoin protocol at a low-level (vs higher level FRCs).
- The topic should not be philosophical. The core developer meetings are not meant to decide philosophical contentious issues that should be decided by the community. There are exceptions to this, but generally these topics distract from more productive technical discussion.

### Who Manages the Meetings
As of January 2021, [@arajasek](https://github.com/arajasek) facilitates meetings, handles recordings, and publishes notes from the meetings.
The meetings are independent of any organization. However, Protocol Labs pays for the videoconference software used in the meetings. See the IPFS [Host a Call](https://github.com/ipfs/team-mgmt/blob/master/HOST_A_CALL.md) instructions for guides on how to configure livestreaming.
