# Filecoin Core Devs Monthly Meeting #83  
**Date:** September 5, 2025  
**Moderator:** [Tanisha Katara](www.tanishakatara.com)
**Presentation:** [Here](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/10mtgnrvE1_l0Bl07nQgH1f4ngHTps8sFoPiuOxYiEvs/edit?slide=id.g37bad0ebf69_0_15#slide=id.g37bad0ebf69_0_15))

---

## Meeting Overview
- üéØ **Focus:** Network Upgrade 27 updates and transparency (less consensus-building this meeting)  
- üìÖ **Next Meeting:** Core Devs #84 will focus on FIP discussions and consensus-building  

---

## FIP Status Updates

### Recently Accepted FIPs
- Multiple FIPs successfully moved from Last Call ‚Üí Accepted
  - FIP 0105 - Moved to Accepted after Last Call ended on August 4th
  - FIP 0103 - Moved to Accepted after Last Call ended on August 6th
  - FIP 0106 - Moved to Accepted after Last Call ended on August 6th
  - FIP 0107 - Moved to Accepted after Last Call ended on August 15th
  - FIP 0077 - Moved to Accepted 
- Announcements posted across Lobby, #Fil-fips, and Core Devs channels  
- These FIPs are now being prepared for **NV27 integration**  

### FIP0064 - Base Fee Mechanism Parameters
- **Status:** Author will present at next Core Devs meeting  
- **Background:** Community questions raised about network impact  
- **Action:** Full discussion + Q&A scheduled for Core Devs #84  

---

## Network Upgrade NV27: *Golden Week* ‚Äî Finalized Scope

### Confirmed FIPs for NV27
üü¢ FIP-0105: Add BLS12-381 precompiles to FEVM- enable fast BLS-sig verification/aggregation, improve Ethereum compatibility and unlocks advanced cryptographic use cases on Filecoin.
üü¢ FIP-0077: Add deposit requirement for new miner creation - adds 5 FIL deposit for creating new miners; spam prevention. 
üü¢ FRC-0108: F3-compatible snapshots - standardizes format for F3 snapshots. Removes need to sync whole F3 certificate chain
üü¢ FIP-0109: Smart Contract Notifications for Direct Data Onboarding - Enables DDO-related smart contract notifications
üü¢ FIP-0101: Remove ProveCommitAggregate method - removes derecated method.
üü¢ FIP-0103: Remove ExtendSectorExpiration method - removes deprecated method.
üü¢ FIP-0106: Remove ProveReplicaUpdates method - removes deprecated method.

### Upgrade Name
- **Selected:** *Golden Week* (aligned with timing)  
- **Alternatives Considered:** Planetary conventions, Argentina-based names  
- **Timeline Safety:** Upgrade completes ~1 week before China‚Äôs Golden Week  

### Updated Timeline
- **Code Freeze:** Delayed Friday ‚Üí Tuesday (due to Monday public holiday)  
- **Actor Code Trees:** Completed Tuesday (vs. original Friday target)  
- **Reason:** Extra time needed to finalize FIP77 consensus  

---

## Community Transparency & Tracking

### Tracking Channels
- **Implementation Status:** Lotus, Forest, Venus repositories  
- **Project Management:** NV27 Project Board (PR tracking)  
- **Community Discussion:** GitHub Discussions consolidating Slack conversations  
- **Real-time Updates:** [status.filecoin.io](https://status.filecoin.io) + [@Lotus_web3](https://twitter.com/Lotus_web3)  

### Transparency Commitment
- Real-time visibility emphasized this cycle  
- Immediate updates from implementer calls ‚Üí community  
- Using multiple channels until unified governance platform is ready  

---

## Governance System Development

### FIP100 Committee
- **Status:** Progress slower due to upgrade operational focus  
- **Next Week Actions:**  
  - Committee meeting on recurring schedule  
  - Resolve open comments on data metrics tracking  
  - Publish charter (currently under review)  
- **Key Task:** Identify + build data sources for metrics  

### FIP Lifecycle Revisions ‚Äî Updated
- **Community Feedback:** Incorporated into revisions  
- **Key Changes:**  
  - "Security committee" ‚Üí "Technical committee" with defined scope  
  - Clear threshold + responsibilities established  
- **Status:** Open for community discussion (not final execution)  

### Community Engagement Poll
- **Finding:** 100% of respondents say governance feels too centralized  
- **Participation:** Poll remains open indefinitely ‚Üí [Fill out here](#)  
- **Impact:** Directly influences governance system design  

---

## Community Engagement Discussion

### Current Challenges
- Lower Core Devs attendance  
- Need for incremental participation pathways  
- Building trust through visible feedback action  

### Solutions Implemented
- Integrated discussions (Core Devs + implementers group)  
- Alternative pathways: FIL-B + PLDEV Guild  
- Incremental steps for easier community on-ramps  
- Broader outreach: social media campaign for poll visibility  

---

## Next Steps & Action Items

### Immediate (Next Week)
- FIP100 Committee: Resolve comments + publish charter  
- FIP Lifecycle: Continue discussions on proposed improvements  
- Engagement push: Social media campaign for poll  

### Core Devs #84 Preview
- FIP64 deep dive: Author presentation + Q&A  
- Three FIPs discussion: consensus-building (2 draft, 1 discussion)  
- Continued transparency with real-time updates  

---

## Long-term Governance Goals
- Unified governance tracking platform  
- Address centralization concerns  
- Multiple community entry points  
- Build trust through responsiveness  

---

## Important Links
- üé• Meeting Recording (Passcode: Y9Qx1qh*) : [Available here](https://fil-org.zoom.us/rec/share/pPkLyzSELAKgaGLMZweInyZ3E06o27PCIbAs-jeErM27ZfNWWZbv-VYiNSTB1wFP.qC9jlqnjUCoqNmRW)  
- üñºÔ∏è Presentation Slides: [Core Devs 83 Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/10mtgnrvE1_l0Bl07nQgH1f4ngHTps8sFoPiuOxYiEvs/edit?slide=id.g37bad0ebf69_0_0#slide=id.g37bad0ebf69_0_0)  
- üìä NV27 Tracking: [status.filecoin.io](https://status.filecoin.io)  
- üó≥Ô∏è Community Poll: [Fill out here](https://poll.fil.org/dashboard/c/8n7hhjebkb)  
- üí¨ GitHub Discussions: [Join conversations](filecoin-project/core-devs#196)
- Subscribe to all NV27 Updates here: [Subscribe](https://status.filecoin.io/incidents/h9fx0z88tpkb?u=nrv63fkjvl9x)


